# sort and limit

## What is cursor 
Cursor is a pointer to the result set of a query.

As we have seenn previously find() method finds the specific document and returns the cursor pointing to that document or resulting set.

## Cursor methods

These are chained queries.
Cursor methods are the methods which are used to perform actions to the resulting set of the functions before being displayed as output.

## sort()

If we want our output in the sorted manner we can use the sort() method.

All the capital letters will be sorted first then after that all the small letters will be sorted and displayed.

We can use optional options tag to fix that behaviour.

```js syntax
db.collection.find(<query>).sort(<sort>)
```

```js
db.companies.find(
  {
    category_code:"music"
  }
).sort(
  {
    name:1
  }
)
```
Here we want to sort the result by name and in 1 in front of it stands for aescending oerder while using -1 instead of 1 results in descending order.

```js
db.companies.find(
  {
    category_code:"music"
  },
  {
    name:1
  }
).sort(
  {
    name:1
  }
)
```

Here the additional field used is called as that results displaying only that specific field from the entire document here mentioned field is name so only the name field will be displayed along with _id.


## limit()

Limits the number of the results.

This can limit the number of results which leads to enhanced performance by avoiding data pre preocessing.

Here if we want to display only 3 music companies having largest number of employees.


```js syntax
db.companies.find(<query>).limit(<number>)
```


```js
db.companies.find(
  {
    category_code:"music"
  }
).sort(
  {
    number_of_employees:-1
  }
).limit(3)
```

```js
db.companies.find(
  {
    category_code:"music"
  },
  {
    name:1,
    number_of_employees:1
  }
).sort(
  {
    number_of_employees:-1
  }
).limit(3)
```


## lab

You will use the sales collection. (Suggestion: run db.sales.findOne() to return a sample document and review the structure of the data in this this collection.)

    Return the data on all sales, ordered by date from oldest to newest.

```js
db.sales.find({}).sort({saleDate:-1})
```


Return the data on all sales made online using a coupon, ordered by date from the most recent to the oldest. (Forgot the command? Check the hints below!)

```js
db.sales.find({couponUsed:true}).sort({saleDate:-1})
```

Return the data on the three most recent sales made from the London store that included one or more of the following items: a laptop, a backpack or printer paper.

```js
db.sales.find(
  {
    "items.name": {
       $in: ["laptop", "backpack", "printer paper"] 
    }, 
    "storeLocation": "London", 
  }
).sort(
  {
    saleDate: -1, 
  }
).limit(3)
```