# Using $match and $group Stages in a MongoDB Aggregation Pipeline
Review the following sections, which show the code for the $match and $group aggregation stages.

##$match
The $match stage filters for documents that match specified conditions. Here's the code for $match:
```js
{
  $match: {
     "field_name": "value"
  }
}
```

## $group

The $group stage groups documents by a group key.
```js
{
  $group:
    {
      _id: <expression>, // Group key
      <field>: { <accumulator> : <expression> }
    }
 }
```

## $match and $group in an Aggregation Pipeline

The following aggregation pipeline finds the documents with a field named "state" that matches a value "CA" and then groups those documents by the group key "$city" and shows the total number of zip codes in the state of California.

```js
db.zips.aggregate([
{   
   $match: { 
      state: "CA"
    }
},
{
   $group: {
      _id: "$city",
      totalZips: { $count : { } }
   }
}
])
```

## lab

You have a database called bird_data with a collection of sightings. We want to use this data to find out where we should go to see our favorite bird, Eastern Bluebirds. We’ll use the location coordinates (latitude and longitude) and the number of sightings in each location to identify the best places to view the Eastern Bluebirds.
```js
db.sightings.aggregate([
  {
    $match: {
        species_common: 'Eastern Bluebird'
    }
  }, {
    $group: {
        _id: '$location.coordinates',
        number_of_sightings: {
            $count: {}
        }
    }
  }
])
```

## Questions
You have a collection that contains zip codes in the United States. Here’s a sample document from this collection:
```js
_id: ObjectId('5c8eccc1caa187d17ca6eea2')
city: "EVERGREEN"
zip: "36401"
loc: Object
   y: 31.458009
   x: 86.925771 
pop: 8556
state: "AL"
```
### First question
What will the output of this aggregation pipeline be? (Select one.)
```js
db.zips.aggregate([
{
   $match: { "state": "CA" }
},
{
   $group: { "_id": "$zip" }
}
])
```

### Answer
b. One document for each zip code located in California (CA) 
First, the $match stage finds all documents where the state is California (CA). Next, the $group stage groups documents according to a group key. The output of this stage is one document for each unique value of this group key. In this example, the output is one document for each zip code because the group key is the zip code.

### Second question
What will the output of this aggregation pipeline be? (Select one.)
```js
db.zips.aggregate([
{
   $match: { "state": "TX" }
},
{
   $group: { "_id": "$city" }
}
])
```
### Answer
a. One document for each city located in Texas (TX) 
First, the $match stage finds all documents where the state is Texas (TX). Next, the $group stage groups documents according to a group key. The output of this stage is one document for each unique value of this group key. In this example, the output is one document for each city because the group key is the city.